:memo: getting started (#314)
alakarteio/k-ramel: GETTING_STARTED.md

# Getting started
This getting started shows you how to use k-ramel with React, but you can use k-ramel with something else (or as a standalone).

But first of all, you have to install dependencies: `yarn add k-ramel @k-ramel/driver-http @k-ramel/react`
 - **k-ramel** is the base package
 - **@k-ramel/driver-http** will be used to request some API
 - **@k-ramel/react** will be used to connect k-ramel with ReactJS

## 1. Create the store
```diff
+import { createStore, types } from 'k-ramel'
+
+const store = createStore(
+  {
+    todos: types.keyValue(),
+  },
+)
```

> Here we created a store with `todos` that is a keyValue types.

Reviewer: types -> type

> Here we created a store with `todos` that is a keyValue types.

Author: ```suggestion
Here we created a store with `todos` that is a keyValue type.
```

## 2. Use the store
```diff
import { createStore, types } from 'k-ramel'

const store = createStore({
  todos: types.keyValue(),
})

+store.todos.add({ id: 2, title: 'finish the documentation' }) // a.
+store.todos.add({ id: 32, title: 'an other' })

+console.log(store.todos.get(2)) // b.
```

Now you can use the store :

>   - (a) We added a todo, the id is the default key used by keyValue

Reviewer: ~the~ id is the default key used by keyValue type

>   - (a) We added a todo, the id is the default key used by keyValue

Author: ```suggestion
  - (a) We added a todo, id is the default key used by keyValue
```

  - (b) We retrieve (and log) the todo that has the key equals to `2`

## 3. Provide the store to React (context)
```diff
+import React from 'react'
import { createStore, types } from 'k-ramel'
+import { provider } from '@k-ramel/react'

const store = createStore(
  {
    todos: types.keyValue(),
  },
)

store.todos.add({ id: 2, title: 'finish the documentation' })
store.todos.add({ id: 32, title: 'an other' })

console.log(store.todos.get(2))
+
+const App = () => (
+  <div>Hey!</div>
+)
+
+export default provider(store)(App)
```

> Now the store is provided in React context, we can use it and bind our a component to it!

Reviewer: The store is now accessible in the React context

our a component -> a component

> Now the store is provided in React context, we can use it and bind our a component to it!

Author: ```suggestion
The store is now accessible in React context, we can use it and bind a component to it!
```

## 4. Bind a React component
```diff
import React from 'react'
import { createStore, types } from 'k-ramel'
-import { provider } from '@k-ramel/react'
+import { provider, inject } from '@k-ramel/react'

const store = createStore(
  {
    todos: types.keyValue(),
  },
)

store.todos.add({ id: 2, title: 'finish the documentation' })
store.todos.add({ id: 32, title: 'an other' })

console.log(store.todos.get(2))
+
+ // a.
+const Todos = ({ todos }) => (
+  <ul>
+    {todos.map(({ id, title }) => (
+      <li key={id}>{title}</li>
+    ))}
+  </ul>
+)
+
+ // b.
+const TodosContainer = inject((store) => {
+  return {
+    todos: store.todos.getAsArray(),
+  }
+})(Todos)

const App = () => (
-  <div>Hey!</div>
+  <TodosContainer /> // c.
)

export default provider(store)(App)
```

> We create a classical React Component (a) and inject todos (as array) in its props (b), and finally we use this new component in our App (c)

Reviewer: classical -> classic

> We create a classical React Component (a) and inject todos (as array) in its props (b), and finally we use this new component in our App (c)

Author: ```suggestion
We create a classic React Component (a) and inject todos (as array) in its props (b), and finally we use this new component in our App (c)
```

## 5. Add a new todos (store mutation)
```diff
import React from 'react'
import { createStore, types } from 'k-ramel'
import { provider, inject } from '@k-ramel/react'

const store = createStore(
  {
    todos: types.keyValue(),
  },
)

store.todos.add({ id: 2, title: 'finish the documentation' })
store.todos.add({ id: 32, title: 'an other' })

console.log(store.todos.get(2))

-const Todos = ({ todos }) => (
+const Todos = ({ todos, onClick }) => (
+  <div>

> +    <button onClick={onClick}>Add a todo!</button> {/* c. */}

Reviewer: In `jsx` this doesn't render properly no ?

> +    <button onClick={onClick}>Add a todo!</button> {/* c. */}

Author: It was I feared

> +    <button onClick={onClick}>Add a todo!</button> {/* c. */}

Reviewer 2: yes, not valid jsx ^^ it was for consistency
(copy/paste still need some clean-up afterall)

> +    <button onClick={onClick}>Add a todo!</button> {/* c. */}

Author: So i close this suggestion.

    <ul>
      {todos.map(({ id, title }) => (
        <li key={id}>{title}</li>
      ))}
    </ul>
+  </div>
)

const TodosContainer = inject((store) => {
  return {
    todos: store.todos.getAsArray(),
+    // a.
+    onClick: () => {
+      // b.
+      store.todos.add({ id: Math.random(), title: 'Yo! I am a new todo!' })
+    }
  }
})(Todos)

const App = () => (
  <TodosContainer />
)

export default provider(store)(App)
```

> When we click on the new button (c), the function injected (a) is triggered. This function ask for a mutation (b), which add a new todo (the title is hardcoded here)

Reviewer: Is new really useful ?

the function injected -> the injected function 

triggered -> called

> When we click on the new button (c), the function injected (a) is triggered. This function ask for a mutation (b), which add a new todo (the title is hardcoded here)

Author: ```suggestion
When we click on the new button (c), the injected function (a) is called. This function ask for a mutation (b), which add a todo (the title is hardcoded here)
```

```diff
import React from 'react'
-import { createStore, types } from 'k-ramel'
+import { createStore, types, when } from 'k-ramel'
-import { provider, inject } from '@k-ramel/react'
+import { provider, inject, listen } from '@k-ramel/react'

const store = createStore(
  {
    todos: types.keyValue(),
  },
)

store.todos.add({ id: 2, title: 'finish the documentation' })
store.todos.add({ id: 32, title: 'an other' })

console.log(store.todos.get(2))

const Todos = ({ todos, onClick }) => (
  <div>
    <button onClick={onClick}>Add a todo!</button> {/* c. */}
    <ul>
      {todos.map(({ id, title }) => (
        <li key={id}>{title}</li>
      ))}
    </ul>
  </div>
)

const TodosContainer = inject((store) => {
  return {
    todos: store.todos.getAsArray(),
    onClick: () => {
      store.todos.add({ id: Math.random(), title: 'Yo! I am a new todo!' })
    }
  }
})(Todos)

const App = ({ onClick }) => (
  <TodosContainer />
)
+
+const listeners = [
+  when('@@krf/ADD>TODOS')(() => {
+    console.log('A todo is added!')
+  })
+]
+
+const AppContainer = listen(listeners)(App)

-export default provider(store)(App)
+export default provider(store)(AppContainer)
```

> Here we opened redux-devtools, click on the button, and look at actions that are logged into redux-devtools :).\

Reviewer: Open redux-devtools, click on the button, and look the action is logged into redux-devtools :).

> Here we opened redux-devtools, click on the button, and look at actions that are logged into redux-devtools :).\

Author: ```suggestion
Open redux-devtools, click on the button, and look the action is logged into redux-devtools :).\
```

> We see that the action `@@krf>ADD>TODOS` is the one triggered when a new todo is added.\

Reviewer: ~We see that~ the action `@@krf>ADD>TODOS` is ~the one~ triggered when a new todo is added

> We see that the action `@@krf>ADD>TODOS` is the one triggered when a new todo is added.\

Author: ```suggestion
The action `@@krf>ADD>TODOS` is triggered when a new todo is added.\
```

store.todos.add({ id: 32, title: 'an other' })

console.log(store.todos.get(2))

const Todos = ({ todos, onClick }) => (
  <div>
    <button onClick={onClick}>Add a todo!</button> {/* c. */}
    <ul>
      {todos.map(({ id, title }) => (
        <li key={id}>{title}</li>
      ))}
    </ul>
  </div>
)

const TodosContainer = inject((store) => {
  return {
    todos: store.todos.getAsArray(),
-    onClick: () => {
-      store.todos.add({ id: Math.random(), title: 'Yo! I am a new todo!' })
-    }
+    // b.
+    onClick: () => store.dispatch('@@ui/ADD_TODO>CLICKED')
  }
})(Todos)

const App = () => (
  <TodosContainer />
)

const listeners = [
  when('@@krf/ADD>TODOS')(() => {
    console.log('A todo is added!')
  }),
+  // c.
+  when('@@ui/ADD_TODO>CLICKED')(async (action, store, drivers) => {
+    const todo = await drivers.http('TODO').post(
+      'https://todo-backend-modern-js.herokuapp.com/todos',
+      {
+        title: 'Yo! I am a new todo!',
+      },
+    )
+
+    store.todos.add(todo)
+  })
]

const AppContainer = listen(listeners)(App)

export default provider(store)(AppContainer)
```

First we add a new driver to **k-ramel**, the http driver. (a.) \

> Then we changed the `onClick` callback so it dispatch an empty action whose type is `@@ui/ADD_TODO>CLICKED` (b.), this action is catched into our **listeners**, and we react to it by calling an API (c.).\

Reviewer: changed -> change

dispatch -> dispatchs

> Then we changed the `onClick` callback so it dispatch an empty action whose type is `@@ui/ADD_TODO>CLICKED` (b.), this action is catched into our **listeners**, and we react to it by calling an API (c.).\

Author: ```suggestion
Then we change the `onClick` callback so it dispatchs an empty action whose type is `@@ui/ADD_TODO>CLICKED` (b.), this action is catched into our **listeners**, and we react to it by calling an API (c.).\
```

> The TODO title is hardcoded, you can see we `await` the API response, and add the todo to the store after the API responds.

Author: I did this because I think we are more used to `await` a request.
So I try to hook them and refer to what they are used to before going into event driven dev.

> The TODO title is hardcoded, you can see we `await` the API response, and add the todo to the store after the API responds.

Reviewer 2: I understand your idea.
I'm not used to `await` on my work projects :stuck_out_tongue:

> The TODO title is hardcoded, you can see we `await` the API response, and add the todo to the store after the API responds.

Author: Because with roadhog-saga you already are in an event driven dev.

But in Cinq, we were using `redux-thunk` and we were doing `await fetch` all the way didn't we?

> The TODO title is hardcoded, you can see we `await` the API response, and add the todo to the store after the API responds.

Reviewer: I only use async/await, i guess it depends of people 😄 You have to make a choice

store.todos.add({ id: 32, title: 'an other' })

console.log(store.todos.get(2))

const Todos = ({ todos, onClick }) => (
  <div>
    <button onClick={onClick}>Add a todo!</button> {/* c. */}
    <ul>
      {todos.map(({ id, title }) => (
        <li key={id}>{title}</li>
      ))}
    </ul>
  </div>
)

const TodosContainer = inject((store) => {
  return {
    todos: store.todos.getAsArray(),
    onClick: () => store.dispatch('@@ui/ADD_TODO>CLICKED')
  }
})(Todos)

const App = () => (
  <TodosContainer />
)

const listeners = [
  when('@@krf/ADD>TODOS')(() => {
    console.log('A todo is added!')
  }),
-  when('@@ui/ADD_TODO>CLICKED')(async (action, store, drivers) => {
-    const todo = await drivers.http('TODO').post(
+  when('@@ui/ADD_TODO>CLICKED')((action, store, drivers) => {
+    drivers.http('TODO').post(
      'https://todo-backend-modern-js.herokuapp.com/todos',
      {
        title: 'Yo! I am a new todo!',
      },
    )
-
-    store.todos.add(todo)
  }),
+  when('@@http/TODO>POST>ENDED')((action, store) => {
+    store.todos.add(action.payload)
+  }),
]

const AppContainer = listen(listeners)(App)

export default provider(store)(AppContainer)
```

> We don't use **async/await** anymore but you Redux as an eventbus and react to the **ENDED** event triggered by the HTTP driver to, at the end, add the todo into the store.

Reviewer: but you use Redux

to~, at the end,~ add the todo into the store

> We don't use **async/await** anymore but you Redux as an eventbus and react to the **ENDED** event triggered by the HTTP driver to, at the end, add the todo into the store.

Author: ```suggestion
We don't use **async/await** anymore but we use Redux as an eventbus and react to the **ENDED** event triggered by the HTTP driver to add the todo into the store.
```

> You can find the last version here in [examples/getting_started](https://github.com/alakarteio/k-ramel/tree/master/examples/getting_started).

Author: ```suggestion
You can find this last step in this project : [examples/getting_started](https://github.com/alakarteio/k-ramel/tree/master/examples/getting_started).
```

Author: @frinyvonnick What is your though about it?

@delphinemillet yours?

Author: This is about this comment: https://github.com/alakarteio/k-ramel/pull/314#discussion_r253266811

Reviewer 2: may be you should target a specific line or at least a specific file in this folder ?

> You can find the last version here in [examples/getting_started](https://github.com/alakarteio/k-ramel/tree/master/examples/getting_started).

Reviewer: You can find out the last version of the documentation at the following link
// 
Find out the last version of the documentation

Author: This is not a version of documentation.
This is the related code at the last step.
